Well, we're talking about humility, and from the discussion we can appreciate how humility
is a key is much needed if we're going to view other superior to us.
But it's easy to talk about humility.
It's another thing, acquiring humility, and that may be a challenge.
What the expression, the statement made in 1 Peter, chapter 5, verse 5, in the middle
of the verse, 1 Peter 5, 5, but all of you close yourselves with humility to one another.
Now that expression, close yourself, is significant because it shows, it helps to appreciate
that humility is a quality that only we personally can put on.
It's not inherited.
And for sure, it doesn't come naturally.
We have to do it ourselves, and we have to be willing to do it.
Now, in addition to the challenge that we have with humility,
it is to wear the garment of humility at all times.
And this is so because humility is not encouraging the world right now.
We are surrounded by individuals who encourage to be proud because of race, education,
natural abilities, social status, be somebody, excel.
And it's the sign of the time of the end.
People are in love with themselves, puffed up with pride.
Well Jehovah is not impressed with the abilities or privileges or challenges that we have.
Anyway, he gave him to us, not what is recorded in 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 7,
1 Corinthians 4.7, who makes you different from another?
Indeed, what do you have that you did not receive?
In fact, you did receive it.
If, in fact, you did receive it, why do you boast as though you did not receive it?
Plainly stated, we have, because somebody gave it to us.
However, this is interesting point.
Jehovah does not give humility.
We have to acquire ourselves.
That's what the scripture said, close yourself.
But Jehovah expects that we do it is not a recommendation.
So how we view ourselves is important to Jehovah.
It matters to him.
So therefore, the aspect of humility, to consider our superior to us, is important.
But it has to be genuine humility.
Now, why do we say genuine humility?
Because there is a false humility in this mentioned in Colossians chapter 2.
And false humility is a desire to elevate oneself above others by an outward appearance
of humility just to impress people, and that's not going to make us consider others superior
to us.
But the challenge that we have with humility is to wear the garment of genuine humility
our old times.
And this is real.
Now, why?
Because a time circumstances may change for the better in our situation, or circumstances
may not meet our preferences.
And that happens.
It impacts how we feel, our feelings.
Note this situation as an example.
It's Hager, Sarah, and Abraham.
Let's go to Genesis chapter 16, Genesis chapter 16, verse 4.
So Abraham had relations with Hager, and she became pregnant.
And she realized that she was pregnant, a change of circumstances for the better for
her.
She began to despise her mistress, interesting, the change of feelings.
So Hager had a hard time seeing Sarah superior to her.
Now, from Jehovah's point, what was the solution to the problem?
Please go to verse 9 of the same chapter.
Jehovah's angels then said to her, return to your mistress, and what humble yourself
under her hand, close yourself with humility.
Now, another example of the impact of a change of circumstances can have on displaying humility
is Korah.
Korah was a cousin, the first cousin of Moses and Aaron, with a prominent man in this
room, has seen beautiful examples of Jehovah's power and glory.
But it appears that the unfavorable circumstances and the wilderness affected his view of himself.
And him, along with others, resented the fact that so far we're not at the promised land.
But also, in addition to that, as shown in Psalm 106, verse 16, he seems that Korah started
to envy Moses and Aaron, and resented their prominence, their appointment.
But not see them superior to him.
Well, committed, they would have helped Korah, to appreciate that Moses and Aaron's appointment
really came from Jehovah.
He appointed them to the privilege that they were enjoying.
But his lack of humility caused him not just to envy Moses.
He went further than that, and this is serious.
Please note what happened according to the record in Numbers 16, Numbers 16, verse 3.
So they, Korah and the group, gathered together against Moses and Aaron and said to them,
we had enough of you.
The whole assembly is holy, all of them, and Jehovah's in their mess.
Why then should you exalt yourself about the congregation of Jehovah?
Can you imagine saying that to an appointment by Jehovah?
Yes, this was a serious matter.
Lack of humility moved these individuals to rebel.
And is a lesson for us what lack of humility can lead to.
The tragic end of Korah makes it very, very clear.
And on the other hand, we see a beautiful example of the sons of Korah.
They show a humble spirit.
And they will copy and contend with being just helpers, assistance to the priests.
And in interesting too, humility helped them not to follow their parents.
So as obvious as we review this issue of humility, that the garment of humility at all times
is needed.
And this is especially when circumstances change in our lives for the better or our expectations
are actually fulfilled.
But humility can help us in our day-to-day activities too.
Psalm 15 4 says, he does not go back on his promise even when he is bad for him.
So humility will help us to be true to our promise, to our Word regardless of whom we made
the promise.
So we can see the value of genuine humility as we worship Jehovah.
And what will be the reward for clothing ourselves with humility?
Now let's read it in Proverbs chapter 22 and let's read verse 4.
The result of humility in the fear of Jehovah is riches and glory and life.
Beautiful, isn't it?
First of all, clothing ourselves with humility.